content: V1.1 RC2 (#1298)
slsa-framework/slsa: docs/spec/v1.1-rc2/threats-overview.md

SLSA's primary focus is supply chain integrity, with a secondary focus on
availability. Integrity means protection against tampering or unauthorized
modification at any stage of the software lifecycle. Within SLSA, we divide
integrity into source integrity vs build integrity.

**Source integrity:** Ensure that the source revision represents the intent of the producer, that all expected processes were followed and that the revision was not modified after being accepted.

**Build integrity:** Ensure that the package is built from the correct,
unmodified sources and dependencies according to the build recipe defined by the
software producer, and that artifacts are not modified as they pass between
development stages.

**Availability:** Ensure that the package can continue to be built and
maintained in the future, and that all code and change history is available for
investigations and incident response.

### Real-world examples

Many recent high-profile attacks were consequences of supply chain integrity vulnerabilities, and could have been prevented by SLSA's framework. For example:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>
<th>Threats from
<th>Known example

> <th>How SLSA could help

Reviewer: @marcelamelara brought this up in another thread, this column currently lists some things that SLSA does, and some things _SLSA_ doesn't do but that users could do themselves.

E.g. for threat B it says "two-person review could have caught the unauthorized change".  SLSA doesn't do that!  Not yet at least.  Similar for 'C'.

We could address this by:

1. Ignore it, it's been fine so far.
2. Rename the column: "SLSA and other solutions"
3. For B and C replace the cell text with "SLSA does not address this threat."

@marcelamelara @lehors @zachariahcox thoughts?

Author: How about: 4. Replace the cell text with "SLSA does not address this threat but <what could be done instead>" ?

<tbody>
<tr>
<td>A
<td>Producer
<td><a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SpySheriff">SpySheriff</a>: Software producer purports to offer anti-spyware software, but that software is actually malicious.
<td>SLSA does not directly address this threat but could make it easier to discover malicious behavior in open source software, by forcing it into the publicly available source code.

> For close source software SLSA does not provide any solutions for malicious producers.

Reviewer: Typo, should be 'closed'

Where do we want fixes like that to be made?

Author: well, at this point I'll have to fix it both in draft and v1.1-rc2 but no problem.

<td>Two-person review could have caught the unauthorized change.
<tr>
<td>C
<td>Source code management
<td><a href="https://news-web.php.net/php.internals/113838">PHP</a>: Attacker compromised PHP's self-hosted git server and injected two malicious commits.
<td>A better-protected source code system would have been a much harder target for the attackers.
<tr>
<td>D
<td>External build parameters
<td><a href="https://www.reddit.com/r/HobbyDrama/comments/jouwq7/open_source_development_the_great_suspender_saga/">The Great Suspender</a>: Attacker published software that was not built from the purported sources.
<td>A SLSA-compliant build server would have produced provenance identifying the actual sources used, allowing consumers to detect such tampering.
<tr>
<td>E
<td>Build process
<td><a href="https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/sunspot-malware-technical-analysis/">SolarWinds</a>: Attacker compromised the build platform and installed an implant that injected malicious behavior during each build.

> <td>Higher SLSA levels require <a href="requirements#build-requirements">stronger security controls for the build platform</a>, making it more difficult to compromise and gain persistence.

Reviewer: At the risk of opening a can of worms...

Are we happy with this current phrasing?  What specifically is the is referring to at "Higher SLSA levels"?   This? https://deploy-preview-1298--slsa.netlify.app/spec/v1.1-rc2/requirements#isolation-strength

An alternative that would require some rephrasing would be https://deploy-preview-1298--slsa.netlify.app/spec/v1.1-rc2/requirements#security-best-practices

Of course what will really improve this is the build environment track.

Maybe it's fine as is?

CC @marcelamelara @lehors

Reviewer 2: Yeah, this still sounds a little bit like pre-v1 language, and the href `requirements#build-requirements` simply points to the main Build track spec. As you said @TomHennen , the "higher SLSA levels" are probably referring to L3 where we introduce the isolation strength. 

Without nitpicking this phrasing too much, I think this current description is probably conflating compromise of the build platform and compromise of the build process a little bit. It depends on how broadly we want to define "build platform", but that's probably why this "How SLSA can help" phrasing also feels a bit off. The other part, too, is that the SolarWinds hack was primarily made possible through a stolen access credential to the build system, so it's not clear to me exactly what "stronger security controls" at higher SLSA levels would have actually helped.

So, here's another suggestion for alternative phrasing:
```suggestion
<td>Higher SLSA Build levels have <a href="requirements#build-platform">stronger security requirements for the build platform</a>, making it more difficult for an attacker to forge the SLSA provenance and gain persistence.
```

Author: LGTM
